.TH KEYSMITH 1 "2026-07-21" "gpg-keysmith 1.1.1" "gpg-keysmith Manual"
.SH NAME
keysmith \- automated GPG key generation and GitHub integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B keysmith
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B keysmith
is a Go CLI that automates the full path from \(lqno GPG key\(rq to \(lqsigned
commits flowing on GitHub\(rq. It generates a new OpenPGP key, exports the
public key, configures git to sign commits and tags, uploads the public key
to your GitHub account, stores the private key and passphrase as repository
Action secrets for CI signing, and publishes the public key to a public
keyserver \(em all orchestrated by a single
.B wizard
command or available as individual subcommands.
.PP
The tool shells out to
.BR gpg (1),
.BR git (1),
and
.BR gh (1)
for the actual work. It is safe by design: the passphrase is piped via stdin
(never a CLI arg), the private key is held in memory only (never written to
disk), and the GitHub token is read from an environment variable (never a
flag). See
.B SECURITY
below and
.I docs/en/security.md
for the full threat model.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR detect
List existing GPG secret keys in the local keyring, or print a hint to run
.BR generate .
.TP
.BR generate
Generate a new GPG key via
.B "gpg --gen-key"
with a batch parameter file. Passphrase is collected via a masked prompt
unless
.B \-\-passphrase-file
is given.
.TP
.BR export
Export the ASCII-armored public key to a file (default
.IR gpg-public-key.asc )
and capture the private key in memory for the
.B github
step.
.TP
.BR git\-config
Set
.BR user.signingkey ,
.BR commit.gpgsign ,
.BR gpg.format ,
and
.BR tag.gpgsign
in the local repo (or
.B \-\-global
user config) to sign commits and tags.
.TP
.BR github
Upload the GPG public key to your GitHub account, store the private key and
passphrase as repository secrets
.RI ( GPG_PRIVATE_KEY
and
.IR GPG_PASSPHRASE ),
commit the public key on a
.I chore/add-gpg-public-key
branch, and open a pull request.
.TP
.BR publish
Publish the GPG public key to one or more public keyservers (default
.IR all :
keys.openpgp.org and keyserver.ubuntu.com).
.TP
.BR status
Show the current state of your GPG + GitHub setup with per-step
\(rh/\(rh/\(rh indicators: GPG keys, git config, GitHub pubkey, repo secrets,
and keyserver publication.
.TP
.BR wizard
Run the full setup flow end-to-end: detect, generate, export, git-config,
github, publish. Each step prompts for confirmation and writes progress to
.I state.json
so a failed run can be resumed.
.TP
.BR config
Manage the config file at
.IR ~/.config/gpg-keysmith/config.yaml .
Subcommands:
.B init
(write a commented template),
.B show
(print the current config),
.B path
(print the config file path).
.TP
.BR completion
Generate a shell autocompletion script. Subcommands:
.BR bash ,
.BR zsh ,
.BR fish ,
.BR powershell .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-config = path
Path to the config file (default
.IR ~/.config/gpg-keysmith/config.yaml ).
Applies to all commands.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Print help for
.B keysmith
or for a specific subcommand.
.PP
Each subcommand accepts its own flags; run
.B keysmith <command> \-\-help
for the full list. Notable per-command flags:
.TP
.B generate \-\-name , \-\-email , \-\-comment , \-\-key-length , \-\-expiry , \-\-passphrase-file
Identity and parameters for the new key.
.TP
.B export \-\-keyid , \-\-email , \-\-pubkey , \-\-passphrase-file
Select the key to export and the output path.
.TP
.B github \-\-repo , \-\-keyid , \-\-pubkey-file
Target repository and key selection.
.TP
.B publish \-\-keyid , \-\-keyserver , \-\-pubkey-file
Keyserver target:
.IR all ,
.IR openpgp ,
or
.IR ubuntu .
.TP
.B status \-\-repo , \-\-keyserver , \-\-fingerprint
Inspect a specific repo or keyserver.
.TP
.B wizard \-\-name , \-\-email , \-\-comment , \-\-repo , \-\-key-length , \-\-expiry , \-\-keyserver , \-\-passphrase-file , \-\-state-path , \-\-reset
Pre-fill the wizard prompts or reset the state file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B keysmith wizard
Run the full end-to-end setup interactively, resumable on failure.
.TP
.B keysmith generate \-\-name \(dqJane Doe\(dq \-\-email jane@example.com \-\-passphrase-file /dev/stdin
Generate a new key non-interactively, reading the passphrase from stdin
(for CI/script usage with no TTY).
.TP
.B keysmith status \-\-repo owner/name
Show which setup steps are green for the given repository.
.TP
.B keysmith config init
Write a commented config template to
.IR ~/.config/gpg-keysmith/config.yaml .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/gpg-keysmith/config.yaml
Persistent defaults for key generation, keyserver choice, and the GitHub
PAT env-var name. Mode
.IR 0600 .
Created by
.B config init .
.TP
.I ~/.config/gpg-keysmith/state.json
Wizard resume state. Written after each completed step, cleared on full
completion. Never contains the passphrase or private key.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GITHUB_TOKEN
Default GitHub personal access token (read by the
.B github
and
.B status
commands). Must have
.I admin:gpg_key
and
.I repo
scopes for
.BR github .
.TP
.B GH_TOKEN
Fallback token, used when
.B GITHUB_TOKEN
is unset. The env var name can be changed via
.B config.github.token_env
in the config file.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Overrides the config directory; the config and state files move to
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gpg-keysmith/ .
Defaults to
.I ~/.config
when unset.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Any error \(em missing dependency, failed
.BR gpg / git / gh
invocation, validation failure, or interrupted prompt.
.SH SECURITY
The passphrase, private key, and GitHub token never cross a leak surface:
the passphrase is piped to
.B gpg
via stdin, the private key is held in memory only, and the token is read
from an environment variable. There is no
.B \-\-passphrase
or
.B \-\-token
flag by design. See
.I docs/en/security.md
for the full threat model.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gpg (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR gh (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs and feature requests at
.UR https://github.com/Korrnals/gpg-keysmith/issues
.UE .
For security issues, see the responsible disclosure process in
.IR docs/en/security.md .
.SH AUTHOR
Leonid Golikhin <korrnals@gmail.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT \(em see
.I LICENSE
for the full text. Copyright (c) 2026 Leonid Golikhin.